			  Homework 3

PROCESSES:

1.  Where is the data structure for the process table?
    Answer:
    Filename: proc.c
    line: 10
    It is a sturct with the name of "ptable"

2.  When there is a context switch from one process to another, where are
    the values of the registers of the old process saved?
    Answer:
    Contexts are stored at the bottom of the stack that they describe. The stack pointer is the address of the context.

3.  What are the possible states of a process?  Also, give a brief phrase
    describing the purpose of each state.
    Answer:
    As we can see in proc.h file in line 52, a process can have one of these values: UNUSED, EMBRYO, SLEEPING, RUNNABLE, RUNNING, ZOMBIE.
    UNUSED: an unused process. created when allocating kernel stack.
    EMBRYO: being created but not ready. Has a pid.
    SLEEPING: Waiting. It needs an external event to happen.
    RUNNABLE: ready and could be put on CPU to become running. 
    RUNNING: The process that is actually currently running and is on CPU.
    ZOMBIE: Finished. An exited process remains in the zombie state until its parent calls wait() to find out it exited.

4.  What is the function that does a context switch between two
    processes?
    Answer:
    The "swtch" function. (in the swtch.S file)
    void swtch(struct context **old, struct context *new);

5.  Explain how the context switch function works.
    Answer:
    Context switch is happening in file swtch.S. Contexts are stored at the bottom of the stack that they describe. The stack pointer is the address of the context.
    The swtch function is this: void swtch(struct context **old, struct context *new);
    Values of %ebp, %ebx, %esi, %edi registers from callee ("old") are pushed into the stack. Then the code switches the stack and loads "new" callee-saved registers.

6.  What function calls the context switch function, and explain in detail
    what the calling function does.  (The doxygen hyper-linking
    is not perfect here.  You may have to use 'grep' on
       /course/cs7600/unix-xv6/* )
    Answer:
    the context switch function (swtch()) is called in "scheduler" function in file proc.c in line 286.
    Scheduler loops over process table and looks for a process with a RUNNABLE state. Then it switches to the chosen process.
    scheduler chooses a process to run, then uses swtch() to start running that process, then eventually that process transfers control via swtch() back to the scheduler. and it loops.
    

PROCESS STARTUP:

1.  Suppose a new program is going to start.  This requires a call to
    the system call, exec().  On what lines does the operating system
    create the first call frame, to be used by the user process's main()?
    Answer:
    The exec system call replaces the calling process’s memory with a new memory image loaded from a file stored in the file system.
    The first process execute the program "init" with the arguments {"/init", 0}. It is written in assembly in "initcode.S" file and the system call is done in line 13 and 14.
    Also exec() is used in sh.c too.
    File: sh.c
    line: 78
    exec(ecmd->argv[0], ecmd->argv);

2.  The first call frame must have the values of the
    local variables argc and argv.  Where is the value of argv found
    in the exec() call?
    Answer:
    ecmd->argv is the value of argv in the exec call in the sh.c file.
    there is also an argv pointer which is: sp - (argc+1)*4;

3.  On what lines does the function modify the process table entry
    with the new program for the current process?
    Answer:
    in exec.c file at line 90 to 95 this is going to happen but the most important one is the switchuvm(proc); call in line 95 which Switch TSS and h/w page table to correspond to process p.


SYSTEM CALLS:

1.  The file grep.c makes a call to 'open()'.  The definition of 'open()'
    is inside 'usys.S'.  It makes use of the macro 'SYSCALL'.
    Note that a macro, '$SYS_ ## name', will expand to the concatenation
    of 'SYS_' and the value of the macro parameter, "name".
    The assembly instruction 'int' is the interrupt instruction in
    x86 assembly.  The 'int' assembly instruction takes as an argument
    an integer, 'T_SYSCALL'.
        The code in usys.S is complex because it uses the C preprocessor.

    Finally, here is the question:
        Give the full details of how a call to 'open()' in grep.c will
    call the function 'sys_open()' in sysfile.c, inside the operating
    system kernel.
    Answer:
    grep.c calls open().
    we also know that in usys.S file, all of the system calls are defined. so we already have SYS_open defined. and in file syscall.h in line 16 we know that the number for this system call is 15.
    after that, the assembly instruction 'int $T_SYSCALL' generates a trap. in trap.c file we see that trap() decides if it is T_SYSCALL, after that it calls syscall() in line 43.
    in syscall.c in line 127 to 138 we see that it looks at the number of the process eax and calls syscalls[num]()
    we can see that in file syscall.c in line 102, 117 we have defined syscalls[] = {... [SYS_OPEN] sys_open, ...}
    here, we are initializing syscalls[15] = sys_open in this sys_open is the address of function sys_open(). sys_open is a pointer to the address at the beginning of the function sys_open()



FILES AND FILE DESCRIPTORS:

1.  The function 'sys_open()' returns a file descriptor 'fd'.
    To do this, it opens a new file handle 'filealloc()',
    and it allocates a new file descriptor with 'fdalloc()'.
    Where is the file descriptor allocated?  Also, you will see that
    the file descriptor is one entry in an array.  What is the algorithm
    used to choose which entry in the array to use for the new file descriptor?
    [ Comment:  The name 'NOFILE' means "file number".  "No." is sometimes
      used as an abbreviation for the word "number". ]
    Answer:
    File descriptor is allocatied in "sysfile.c" file in line 315. the dfalloc function is implemented in line 39. fd is chosen between 0 to Number of files.
    the code starts from 0 and increments fd. if number of open files for that fd is 0 (does not exist), this fd is assigned and returned.

2.  As you saw above, the file descriptor turned out to be an index
    in an array.  What is the name of the array for which the file
    descriptor is an index?  Also, what is the type of one entry in
    that array.
    Answer:
    fd is an index of ofile which is of type struct file
    fd is of type int.

3.  The type that you saw in the above question is what I was calling
    a "file handle" (with an offset into the file, etc.).
    What is the name of the field that holds the offset into the file?
    We saw it in the function 'sys_open()'.
    Answer:
    the field is "off". 
    as we can see in line 8 of file.h: uint off

4.  Remember when we mentioned a call to 'filealloc()' above?
    Since the return value of 'filealloc()' is only a file handle,
    we need to initialize it.  Presumably, we will initialize it with
    a file offset of 0.  What is the line number in 'sys_open()' where
    we initialize the file offset to 0?
    Answer:
    we can see in line 327 of file sysfile.c that it is set to 0 in the end of sys_open function.

5.  The file handle type was initialized to 'FD_INODE'.  What are the
    other types that it could have been initialized to?
    Answer:
    There are 3 file types: FD_NONE, FD_PIPE, FD_INODE

6.  Suppose a file handle had been initialized to FD_PIPE.  Find the
    'struct' that holds the information about a pipe.  For each field
    in that struct, Explain briefly (just a phrase) the purpose of that
    field.
    Answer:
    struct "pipe" holds information about a pipe. it is located in file pipe.c in line 12 to 19.
    pipe fields are:
    struct spinlock lock: used for handling and acquiring and releasing lock 
    char data[PIPESIZE]: char array used for storing data
    uint nread: number of bytes read
    uint nwrite: number of bytes written
    int readopen: if read fd is still open
    int writeopen: if write fd is still open


7.  By examining the function 'sys_dup()', you can discover how a
    system call to 'dup()' will manipulate both a file descriptor
    and a "file handle".  Describe what it does in each of the
    two cases.
    Answer:
    The dup() system call creates a copy of the file descriptor using the lowest-numbered unused file descriptor for the new descriptor.
    the sys_dup() function works as follow:
    first, it fetches the nth word-sized system call argument as a file descriptor
    second, it allocates a file descriptor for the given file by calling fdalloc()
    in the end, it increments reference count for file f by calling filedup() function. the sys_dup() function returns the fd.

